Add cluster before/after load information to rebalance optimization proposal in a ConfigMap (#4622)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/cruise-control/con-optimization-proposals.adoc

[discrete]
== Contents of optimization proposals

> An optimization proposal consists of two main sections: the _summary_ and the _broker load_.

Reviewer: This still looks like the old status only PR, it should read something like:

"An optimization proposal consists of two main sections: the _summary_ which is stored in the status of the KafkaRebalance custom resource and the _broker load_ which is stored in a ConfigMap."

> An optimization proposal consists of two main sections: the _summary_ and the _broker load_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An optimization proposal consists of two main sections: 

* The _summary_ is stored in the `status` of the `KafkaRebalance` resource.
* The _broker load_ is stored in a ConfigMap that contains data as a JSON string.
```

The summary provides an overview of the proposed cluster rebalance and indicates the scale of the changes involved.

> The broker load allows you to see the impact of the proposed rebalance on each of the brokers in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: _Suggested change:_

The broker load allows you to see the impact of the proposed rebalance on each of the brokers in the cluster.

>

The broker load shows before and after values for the proposed rebalance, so you can see the impact on each of the brokers in the cluster.

Author: Okay. I will apply this change

|===

[discrete]
=== Broker load

> The broker load section lists all broker IDs and provides a number of metrics for each broker. 

Reviewer: Can we make it clear that the broker load is a json string in a config map. This reads like it is still a _section_ of the status message.

Reviewer: It would also be nice to give an example command as to how a user might retrieve this load information json.

> The broker load is a json string which consist of all broker IDs and provides a number of metrics for each broker.

Reviewer: "The broker load is stored in a ConfigMap (with the same name as the KafakRebalance custom resource) as a JSON formatted string. This JSON string consists of a JSON object with keys for each broker IDs linking to a number of metrics for each broker."

Reviewer: Should we also include an example command of how to extract the JSON string from the config map using `kubectl`? 

WDYT @laidan6000?

Reviewer 2: Sounds like that would be useful.

To extract the JSON string from the ConfigMap, use the following command:

Reviewer: @ShubhamRwt can you add the `kubectl` command to extract the json?

Author: just the json right ? ```kubectl get configmap my-rebalance -o json```

Each metric consist of three values.
The first is the metric value before the optimization proposal is applied, the second is the expected value of the metric after the proposal is applied, and the third is the difference between the first two values (after minus before).

> The following table explains the properties contained in the optimization proposal's broker load section:

Reviewer: "The following table explains the properties contained in the optimization proposal's broker load ConfigMap"

|===

[discrete]
=== Broker load

In the broker load section, each broker is listed under its broker ID number. 

> For each broker a number of metrics (described in the table below) are listed. 

Reviewer 2: @ShubhamRwt - I don't think you need line 109. The table is introduced in line 113.

> For each broker a number of metrics (described in the table below) are listed. 

Author: @laidan6000 thanks. I guess I missed this one. Sorry

> For each broker a number of metrics (described in the table below) are listed. 

Reviewer 2: No problem!

Each metric is linked to an array containing three values.
The first is the metric value before the optimization proposal is applied, the second is the expected value of the metric after the application of the proposal and the last value is the difference between the first two values (after - before).

The following table explains the properties contained in the optimization proposal's broker load section:

[cols="35,65",options="header",stripes="none"]
|======================================================================================================

| JSON property               | Description

m| leaders                     | The number of replicas on this broker that are partition leaders.

m| replicas                    | The number of replicas on this broker.

m| cpuPercentage               | The CPU utilization as a percentage of the defined capacity.

m| diskUsedPercentage          | The disk utilization as a percentage of the defined capacity.

> m| diskUsedMB                  | The absolute disk usage in megabytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
m| diskUsedMB                  | The absolute disk usage in MB.
```

|===

[discrete]
=== Broker load

> The broker load is stored in a ConfigMap (with the same name as the KafakRebalance custom resource) as a JSON formatted string. This JSON string consists of a JSON object with keys for each broker IDs linking to a number of metrics for each broker

Reviewer: You are missing a full stop at the end of this sentence.

Author: I have added it now.

Each metric consist of three values.
The first is the metric value before the optimization proposal is applied, the second is the expected value of the metric after the proposal is applied, and the third is the difference between the first two values (after minus before).

> To extract the JSON string from the ConfigMap, use the following command:

Reviewer: `jq` is just one option for doing this and we don't list `jq` as something you *need* in order to use Strimzi. So I would change this to something like: 

> To extract the JSON string from the ConfigMap you could use the following command, which uses the `jq` command line JSON parser tool:

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
----

> kubectl get configmap _my-rebalance_ -o json | jq .data

Reviewer: We shouldn't use emphasis ( `_`) in a code example.

Reviewer: Also it would be nice to provide a jq example that spits out just the load json:
```
jq '.["data"]["brokerLoad.json"]'
```

Reviewer: When you do that the actual JSON is not parseable by `jq`. It contains a load of escape characters etc. This may be linked to the way we are encoding the string.

Reviewer: I think we shouldn't be using `encodePrettily` is should just be `encode`

Author: @tomncooper,Hello, Actually  ( _)  this change was suggested by @laidan6000 , mostly due to consistency If I remember correctly

Author: I have changed it to encode() now

Reviewer: Ok I tried this change and I think it should def be `encode`. The JSON can be parsed with `jq` using this command:
```
jq '.["data"]["brokerLoad.json"]|fromjson|.'
```
The user can then add their query onto the end of that string.

Reviewer: Is still wonder if it would have been possible to encode the data directly into the `ConfigMap` builder and avoid JSON all together. Then the user could convert the config map data with `-o json` or `-o yaml`.

Author: Okay, Got it. I will push these changes in some minutes

> kubectl get configmap _my-rebalance_ -o json | jq '.["data"]["brokerLoad.json"]|fromjson|.'

Reviewer: I am still not clear on why we are adding emphasis to text in a verbatim code example? When rendered, if I copy code would I get the markup as well?

Author: I tried this but  rendering we are not getting the the markup, but before removing them I guess we should confirm it with @laidan6000 .

Reviewer 2: The markup would not be copied. @ShubhamRwt - Please use capitals and hyphens, so that would be:

MY-REBALANCE

Apologies for the confusion.
